
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="culinary_history_and_recipes">Culinary History and Recipes</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
by Itzo Kerelovitch
</p>

<p>
In the first age, the Nomads were still learning what they could eat and not, so their culinary history is rather lack. Combined with their tendencies to avoid writing things down, we have very little record of culinary history. Through archeological research and investigation of current recipes and traditions we can sort of piece together what they may have eaten.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="early_sansuvut_gastronomy">Early Sansuvut Gastronomy</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
One of the first recipes that the Sansuvut probably made would&#039;ve been smoked and salted meats. Likely using similar methods to today, they would start a small fire, and create a tripod of long sticks. Then they would tie the meat to the poles with string and wrap the smoker in a cloth allowing the meat to cure. it is crucial for the Sansuvut of today to cure and store meats for their journeys over the long winters, and it is likely they have passed these methods down through generations. 
Fruits are abundant throughout the forests that border the Derina Valley, so the sansuvut likely collected and ate these fruits throughout the year. likely discovered early in Sansuvut history, it is crucial that a dietary balance is preserved through the year. Their preservation techniques were similar for both fruit and meat for a long time. dried and smoked meats and fruits allowed the sansuvut to keep their food stable throughout the long winter. 
</p>

<p>
<a href="/doku.php?id=culture:food:recipes:dried_fruit_and_meat" class="wikilink1" title="culture:food:recipes:dried_fruit_and_meat" data-wiki-id="culture:food:recipes:dried_fruit_and_meat">Dried Fruit and Meat</a>
</p>

<p>
<strong>Preservation through fermentation</strong>
</p>

<p>
The biggest advancement in food preservation techniques came with the invention of pottery. This allowed the Sansuvut to begin fermenting fruits into wines and vinegar. It is assumed that a pot full of fresh fruit was forgotten and when the early nomad return they had discovered a delicious pot of wine. What was then soon discovered was that stirring wine will lead to it becoming vinegar.
</p>

<p>
<a href="/doku.php?id=culture:food:recipes:fruit_wine_and_vinegar" class="wikilink2" title="culture:food:recipes:fruit_wine_and_vinegar" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="culture:food:recipes:fruit_wine_and_vinegar">Fruit Wine and Vinegar</a>
</p>

</div>
