
<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="paterdoma_the_burning_city">Paterdoma, the Burning City</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
&lt;Insert poem about the Bor here&gt;
</p>

<p>
It is unknown when the fires of the Bor first started. Some believe they are a divine gift to the Sanvyrat, some believe the Bor was ignited by accident, some believe it was the birth place of The Nameless God. What we do know is when the first Sanvyrat settled in the Andulian Valley, the Bor was already there.
</p>

<p>
Throughout the years, Paterdoma has risen and fallen many times. Always fluctuating between largest and second largest city, the Sanvyrat of the city are incredibly patriotic, and cling to their history and heritage. Reaching its peak in the third age, Paterdoma was and still is the most technologically advanced city on the continent. <br/>
Using the Bor for everything, from agriculture to architecture, Paterdoma has a unique advantage over every other culture. Their only weakness as a city is the absence of nearby water. Building enormous aqueducts spanning hundreds of miles from the Derina Mountains and Wake River headwaters, Paterdoma diverts hundreds of gallons of water daily to feed its machines and water its crops. In the winter the aqueducts are known to freeze, lending to the creation of Snow Catchers, a way to melt and collect snow that lands of the roofs of the city. Snow Catchers are just one of the many technological features that sustain this city in a delicate balance. Their famous aqueducts have been knocked down during wartime over the ages, often crippling the city in the process. 
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="etymology">Etymology</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
The name Paterdoma does not have any known roots. It is most directly translated from ancient <a href="/doku.php?id=culture:language:ancient_languages#patasan" class="wikilink2" title="culture:language:ancient_languages" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="culture:language:ancient_languages">Patasan</a> as <em>Our City</em>. 
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="history">History</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
It is the founding of Paterdoma that marks the start of the second age, and the beginning of recorded history. The beginning history of Paterdoma was marked with turmoil as different tribes fought for control. It was at this time that the first writing system was developed and spread throughout the city. This system has been extended and adapted into the modern age of writing.  Although most agree that Sanvyrat were the first Sanir to invent writing, there is a growing movement in the archeologists that the mythical city and culture of <a href="/doku.php?id=culture:legends:neymoor" class="wikilink2" title="culture:legends:neymoor" rel="nofollow" data-wiki-id="culture:legends:neymoor">Neymoor</a> actually invented writing, although the entire city and culture no longer exists beyond ancient stories. Through this early writing, we can glimpse the earliest history.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="early_paterdoma">Early Paterdoma</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Since the first few years of Paterdoma&#039;s existence, the record keeping has kept a list of the majority of rulers of Paterdoma. This list included the dates and duration of rule for each Saniret.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Ban Khornatt</strong>
When Paterdoma was founded, it was little more than a collection of houses surrounding the crater. The first Saniret of Paterdoma was Saniret Ban. During his rule, he did little more than oversee construction and ajudicate disputes. It wasn&#039;t until a few hundred years later that the Saniret rule began to coincide with notable events.
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="developments">Developments</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Endless fire was a tremendous boon to the nomads, allowing rapid developments in agriculture, architecture, metal work, porcelain and stoneware. 
The first invention of 
</p>

</div>
