
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="drying_food_for_preservation">Drying Food for preservation</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Drying Food for preservation&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;drying_food_for_preservation&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:1,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;1-44&quot;} -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="dried_meats">Dried Meats</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Meat has been dried for millennium by every culture on Serberistan. The simplest method is through smoking.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> First create a tripod with branches or poles about 8 feet long.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> lash a series of platforms to the poles starting about halfway up the tripod.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> start a small fire at the base of the tripod. wood from fruit trees tends to impart a better taste to the meat.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Place thin strips of meat atop the platforms, or hung from cross beams to save space. The general rule is the higher on the poles, the longer the meat takes to finish and the longer it will last.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> cover the tripod with a piece of cloth or skin, making sure to leave a foot of space at the bottom and a chimney hole at the top to let the smoke escape.</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
Fruits are dried much more simply than meats. Simply collect fruits from the trees and leave them atop flat stones in the direct sun. Make sure to guard them from any critter looking for a quick snack. Fruit can also be smoked the same as meat, but has a stronger smoky flavor than meats tend to.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT{&quot;target&quot;:&quot;section&quot;,&quot;name&quot;:&quot;Dried Meats&quot;,&quot;hid&quot;:&quot;dried_meats&quot;,&quot;codeblockOffset&quot;:0,&quot;secid&quot;:2,&quot;range&quot;:&quot;45-&quot;} -->